---
title: "Test the local mobile wallet"
slug: "reference-wallet-local-mob"
hidden: false
metadata: 
  title: "Test the local mobile wallet"
  description: "Test the local mobile version of the Diem Reference Wallet."
createdAt: "2021-02-04T01:06:53.971Z"
updatedAt: "2021-03-30T22:10:25.427Z"
---
## Overview

The Reference Wallet mobile app, similarly to the web UI, demonstrates a centralized (custodial) online service for consumers. The app provides a native experience on Android and iOS devices and can be built manually or installed directly from either Apple App Store or Google Play.

The mobile UI is practically identical to the web UI except for two differences:

1. The mobile app supports sending funds by scanning a QR code.
2. The mobile app does not allow logging in using admin accounts.


## Send Diem coins using QR code scanner

The Reference Wallet mobile app allows sending Diem Coins using the built-in QR code scanner. This feature fills in automatically the transaction details without the need to type in and data manually. The feature is activated from the Send screen:

1. Log in.
2. Press the Send button.
3. In the Recipient field, press the shutter icon.
4. Camera screen will open. Notice that you might be requested to grant permission to use the camera.
5. Point the camera at a Diem QR code. You can scan a QR code generated by another wallet on its Receive screen.
6. All the fields will be field automatically with values.
7. Press Review button.
8. Press Send.


[block:image]
{
  "images": [
    {
      "image": [
        "https://files.readme.io/5817bec-mobile-w-send.png",
        "mobile-w-send.png",
        500,
        867,
        "#e9e9e9"
      ],
      "caption": "Figure 1.0 Send Diem Coins using the Local Mobile Wallet"
    }
  ]
}
[/block]

[block:image]
{
  "images": [
    {
      "image": [
        "https://files.readme.io/12d42b0-mobile-w-receive.png",
        "mobile-w-receive.png",
        500,
        867,
        "#e6e6e7"
      ],
      "caption": "Figure 1.1 Choose currency and share QR code of address"
    }
  ]
}
[/block]